HDS Content - Adding Writing Guidelines and Writing Style (#2576)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/content/writing-guidelines/index.md

---

> title: Writing Guidelines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Writing guidelines
```
[reference](https://hashicorp.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/HDS/pages/3342009417/Writing+Style#Capitalization)

> caption: Guidelines for writing consistent UI copy.
> description: Guidelines for writing consistent UI copy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
caption: Consistent language guidelines for components and patterns.
description: Consistent language guidelines for components and patterns.
```

previewImage: assets/illustrations/content/writing-guidelines.jpg
---

> ## Date and time

Reviewer: [blocking] @Dhaulagiri mentioned this in the chat during today's Leads meeting, but it's strange that there's no reference or cross-link to the Time component. That needs to be present.

> ## Date and time

Reviewer 2: General comment (I know we discussed this in sync today, but I wasn't quite following the context until reading through this); this seems like it's heavily referencing the upcoming `Hds::Time` component, but doesn't explicitly reference it's existence, which is a bit confusing. Will there need to be some updating of this content when the `Time` component is released?

Author: Sorry, added reference to the Time component. The time component doc also references this.

> Present dates and times in a clear and consistent format to enhance usability across products.

Reviewer: [super nit] This uses more plain language since "present" can mean more than one thing.
```suggestion
Display dates and times clearly and consistently to enhance usability across products.
```

> enhance usability across products

How does it enhance usability? Is there anything else we could say here that would be helpful?

Author: I think we can stop at the "consistently" part.

### Usage

> Follow these formatting options to display dates and times in a way that aligns with user needs: 

Reviewer: Maybe something like this?

```suggestion
These formatting options are available in the [Time](#) component. Choose the format most appropriate for your user needs. 
```

Author: I like this more than what I thought I could write.

> - **Relative date**: Displays time in relative terms (e.g., "3 hours ago" or "in 2 days"). This format is recommended for recent events, particularly within the past or upcoming week, as it simplifies recognition of time-sensitive actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Relative date**: Displays time in relative terms, e.g., "3 hours ago" or "in 2 days". This format is recommended for recent events, particularly within the past or upcoming week, as it simplifies recognition of time-sensitive actions.
```
[reference](https://hashicorp.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/HDS/pages/3342009417/Writing+Style#Formatting-e.g.-and-i.e.)

> - **Friendly date**: Provides a user-friendly date, optionally paired with a relative indicator (e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 3:30 PM EST"). Ideal for longer time frames where the exact date offers clear context. Limit time format to the minute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Friendly date**: Provides a user-friendly date, optionally paired with a relative indicator, e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 3:30 PM EST". Ideal for longer time frames where the exact date offers clear context. Limit time format to the minute.
```

> - **Friendly date**: Provides a user-friendly date, optionally paired with a relative indicator (e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 3:30 PM EST"). Ideal for longer time frames where the exact date offers clear context. Limit time format to the minute.

Reviewer 2: [suggestion] Not opinionated on this, but "provides" seems more active in voice.

```suggestion
- **Friendly date**: Provides a user-friendly date, optionally paired with a relative indicator (e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 3:30 PM EST"). Ideal for longer time frames where the exact date provides clear context. Limit time format to the minute.
```

> - **Friendly local date**: Converts the date to the user’s local timezone for added clarity (e.g., "Sep 2, 2024, 3:30 PM EST"). Limit time format to the minute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Friendly local date**: Converts the date to the user’s local timezone for added clarity, e.g., "Sep 2, 2024, 3:30 PM EST". Limit time format to the minute.
```

When would a consumer want to use a friendly date vs a friendly local date?

Author: I think I have an idea of how to write this better.

Author: Is the update I made better? What I'm trying to say is like an event is set by a company in California and I'm in EST, so seeing the time set in PDT shows me they are 3 hours behind me.

> - **Date range**: Presents a range by specifying a start and end date (e.g., "Sep 2–Sep 9, 2024").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Date range**: Displays a range by specifying a start and end date, e.g., "Sep 2–Sep 9, 2024".
```

Noticing that this is using an en dash and it's a range 🙂

> - **Percise Time**: Displays date and time in a UTC format for a log stream or where human readability is not necessary (e.g., “2024-09-05T23:15:17345Z”).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Precise Time**: Displays date and time in a UTC format for a log stream or where human readability is not necessary (e.g., “2024-09-05T23:15:17345Z”).
```

Reviewer 3: We may want to change capitalization of the above terms btw to just use initial caps.

### Example:

Relative Date => Relative date

> - **Precise time**: Displays date and time in a UTC format for a log stream or where human readability is not necessary (e.g., “2024-09-05T23:15:17345Z”).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Precise time**: Displays date and time in a UTC format for a log stream or where human readability isn't necessary, e.g., “2024-09-05T23:15:17345Z”.
```

> ### Relative Dates

Reviewer 2: [nit] This should probably have a return here for consistent markdown formatting.

```suggestion
### Relative Dates

```

> ### Relative Dates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Relative dates
```

> Relative dates work well for periods from one minute up to one week. For added accuracy, a tooltip can display the exact timestamp, including seconds and the local timezone (e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 4:07:32 PM PST"). This feature helps users who need precise information without manually converting from UTC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Relative dates work well for periods from one minute up to one week. For added accuracy, a tooltip can display the exact timestamp, including seconds and the local timezone, e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 4:07:32 PM PST". This helps users who need precise information without manually converting from UTC.
```

> Relative dates work well for periods from one minute up to one week. For added accuracy, a tooltip can display the exact timestamp, including seconds and the local timezone (e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 4:07:32 PM PST"). This feature helps users who need precise information without manually converting from UTC.

Reviewer 2: [suggestion] Could add a cross-reference to the HDS component here

```suggestion
Relative dates work well for periods from one minute up to one week. For added accuracy, a [Tooltip](/components/tooltip) can display the exact timestamp, including seconds and the local timezone (e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 4:07:32 PM PST"). This feature helps users who need precise information without manually converting from UTC.
```

> ![Showing a relative date with a tooltip displaying a friendly local date with seconds.](/assets/content/writing-guidelines/writing-guidelines-relative-dates-with-tooltip.png)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
![A relative date displayed as "5 days ago" with the full date shown in a tooltip in the friendly local format "Sep 5, 2018, 4:07:32 PM EST".](/assets/content/writing-guidelines/writing-guidelines-relative-dates-with-tooltip.png)
```

> - Omit "about" in phrases like "about 3 hours ago" since the approximation is implied.

Reviewer 2: [question] Should this be in a "don't" block or should there be some other formatting for these bullet points? Seems a little strange to format them as bullets in the context.

Author: Personally, I'm ok with this being outside of the don't. Maybe this should be reworded so it matches with the one below it?

To improve readability, show only the most significant unit, e.g., "3 days ago" instead of "3 days, 4 hours ago."

> - Friendly Dates Limit the visible display to the minute (e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 4:07 PM").

Reviewer 5: [Typo] - small capitalization fix here
```suggestion
- Friendly dates limit the visible display to the minute (e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 4:07 PM").
```

Author: Wondering if this should say:
```suggestion
- "Friendly Dates" limit the visible display to the minute (e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 4:07 PM").
```
Because "Friend Dates" is referencing the above section of Friend Date" and "Friend Date Local"

Reviewer 6: I don't think it needs quotes but if you decided to use quotes I would go with
```suggestion
- "Friendly" dates limit the visible display to the minute (e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 4:07 PM").
```

Reviewer 4: lol not to throw another opinion, but following how it was cased earlier in the doc I would do this

```suggestion
- Friendly Dates limit the visible display to the minute (e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 4:07 PM").
```

Reviewer 3: You've already introduced and explained the concept of friendly dates above so not need to include quotes around it.

> - Friendly dates limit the visible display to the minute (e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 4:07 PM").

Reviewer: Should this be moved as a nested bullet under the friendly dates list item above? It feels out of place nested within the "Relative dates" section.
```suggestion
- Friendly dates limit the visible display to the minute, e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 4:07 PM".
```

---
title: Writing guidelines
caption: Consistent language guidelines for components and patterns.
description: Consistent language guidelines for components and patterns.
previewImage: assets/illustrations/content/writing-guidelines.jpg
---

## Date and time

Display dates and times clearly and consistently across products.

### Usage

> These formatting options are available in the [Time](#) component. Choose the format most appropriate for your user needs.

Reviewer 4: Todo: this can be done in the feature branch, but this link needs to be updated.

> These formatting options are available in the [Time](#) component. Choose the format most appropriate for your user needs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These formatting options are available in the [Time](/components/time) component. Choose the format most appropriate for your user needs.
```

- **Relative date**: Displays time in relative terms, e.g., "3 hours ago" or "in 2 days". This format is recommended for recent events, particularly within the past or upcoming week, as it simplifies recognition of time-sensitive actions.

> - **Friendly date**: Provides a user-friendly date and time, e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 3:30 PM EST". Ideal for displaying the date and time to who, or what, set it. Limit time format to the minute.

Reviewer 4: Suggestion: it may just be me, but I am not really sure what "Ideal for displaying the date and time to who, or what, set it" means. what does it mean to display a time to what set it?

Reviewer 3: I agree that it's confusing.

Reviewer 3: Added a suggested simplification below.

(HashiConf isn't a person and it doesn't set a time or read a time.)

> - **Friendly date**: Provides a user-friendly date and time, e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 3:30 PM EST". Ideal for displaying the date and time to who, or what, set it. Limit time format to the minute.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Friendly date**: Provides a user-friendly date and time, e.g., "Sep 5, 2018, 3:30 PM EST". Limit time format to the minute.
```
